
A Face Tracking Camera is a camera that uses algorithms to locate faces within images or video footage. Face detection has progressed from rudimentary computer vision techniques to advances in machine learning (ML) to increasingly sophisticated artificial neural networks (ANN) and related technologies; the result has been continuous performance improvements. It now plays an important role as the first step in many key applications -- including face tracking, face analysis, and facial recognition.

Face detection applications use algorithms and ML to find human faces within larger images, which often incorporate other non-face objects such as landscapes, buildings and other human body parts like feet or hands. Face detection algorithms typically start by searching for human eyes -- one of the easiest features to detect. The algorithm might then attempt to detect eyebrows, the mouth, nose, nostrils and the iris. Once the algorithm concludes that it has found a facial region, it applies additional tests to confirm that it has, in fact, detected a face.

Usually tracking algorithms are faster than detection algorithms. The reason is simple. When you are tracking an object that was detected in the previous frame, you know a lot about the appearance of the object. You also know the location in the previous frame and the direction and speed of its motion. So in the next frame, you can use all this information to predict the location of the object in the next frame and do a small search around the expected location of the object to accurately locate the object. A good tracking algorithm will use all information it has about the object up to that point while a detection algorithm always starts from scratch

Stepper motors are inexpensive and rugged because they have fewer mechanical parts. They are brushless, easy to position, and are commonly used in automation systems, although they are small low power devices as compared to other motors...
They move in steps based on pulses sent to the stator windings, thus they do not have a horsepower rating because they do not actually rotate continuously. The speed of the motor is controlled by the frequency of the pulses. The stepper motor is used for precise positioning with a motor, such as hard disk drives, robotics, antennas, telescopes, and some toys. Stepper motors cannot run at high speeds but have a high holding torque. A stepper motor can be thought of as a "digital" version of an electric motor because it converts digital pulses into fixed steps such that a computer system can easily "step" the rotation of the motor for precise control. A stepper motor has low cost, has simple drive electronics, is accurate, has decent holding torque, and operates at moderate speeds. High acceleration and heavy loads that still require accuracy need a servo motor, the predecessor of the stepper motor.

Taking the application of Face detection and tracking to another level authors of this proposal seek to develop a camera system capable of aligning itself such that the center of the frame which overlaps with the face . The proposed system in the later future could also be developed to detect and track a particular face from a crowd using face recognition.


